
Project Documentation: Hosting a Static Website in S3 and Enabling Global Distribution with CloudFront
Overview
In this project, I successfully hosted a static website using Amazon S3 and enabled global distribution through Amazon CloudFront. This documentation outlines the steps I took to accomplish this.

Step 1: Create an S3 Bucket
Logged into the AWS Management Console.
Navigated to the S3 service.
Clicked on Create bucket.
Chose a unique bucket name (e.g., my-static-website-bucket) and selected the desired region.
Under the Permissions section, I unchecked the Block all public access option to allow public access.
Clicked Create bucket to finalize the process.
Step 2: Upload Website Files
Opened the created bucket by clicking on its name.
Clicked the Upload button to add my static website files (e.g., index.html, style.css, and images).
Dragged and dropped the files into the upload window and clicked Upload to transfer them to the bucket.
Step 3: Configure Bucket for Static Website Hosting
In the bucket, I navigated to the Properties tab.
Scrolled down to the Static website hosting section.
Selected Use this bucket to host a website.
Entered index.html as the Index document and specified 404.html as the Error document (optional).
Clicked Save changes to apply the configuration.
Step 4: Set Bucket Policy for Public Access
Moved to the Permissions tab in the bucket.

Clicked on Bucket Policy to define the policy.

Added the following JSON policy to allow public access to the objects:

{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-static-website-bucket/*"
        }
    ]
}
(Replaced my-static-website-bucket with my actual bucket name.)

Clicked Save to apply the policy.

Step 5: Create a CloudFront Distribution
Navigated to the CloudFront service in the AWS Management Console.
Clicked on Create Distribution and selected Web to get started.
For the Origin Domain Name, I selected my S3 bucket from the dropdown list.
Set the Viewer Protocol Policy to Redirect HTTP to HTTPS for enhanced security.
Left the other settings as default for simplicity and clicked Create Distribution.
Waited a few minutes for the distribution to be created.
Step 6: Accessing the Website
Once the distribution was created, I found the Domain Name of my CloudFront distribution (e.g., d1abcde12345.cloudfront.net) in the list of distributions.
Opened a web browser and entered the CloudFront URL to access my static website globally.